**PRIMARY KEY** - The SQL contrsaint that Uniquely identifies each row/record in a database table.

**FOREIGN KEY** - SQL Constraint that Uniquely identifies a row/record in any another database table.

**Super Key** -  A super key is a group of single or multiple keys which identifies rows in a table. 

**ALTERNATE KEYS** - a column or group of columns in a table that uniquely identify every row in that table. 
                 A table can have multiple choices for a primary key but only one can be set as the primary key. 
                 All the keys which are not primary key are called an Alternate Key. 
                 
**CANDIDATE KEY** - a set of attributes that uniquely identify tuples in a table. 
                    Candidate Key is a super key with no repeated attributes. 
                    
**FOREIGN KEY** - A column that creates a relationship between two tables. 
                  The purpose of Foreign keys is to maintain data integrity and allow navigation between two different instances of an entity.
                  
**COMPOSITE KEY** - A combination of two or more columns that uniquely identify rows in a table. 

**NOT NULL** - NOT NULL constraint makes sure that a column does not hold NULL value

**UNIQUE** - UNIQUE Constraint enforces a column or set of columns to have unique values. 
             If a column has a unique constraint, it means that particular column cannot have duplicate values in a table.
             
**DEFAULT** - The DEFAULT constraint provides a default value to a column when there is no value provided while inserting a record into a table.

**CHECK** - This constraint is used for specifying range of values for a particular column of a table. 
            When this constraint is being set on a column, it ensures that the specified column must have the value falling in the specified range.
            
**DOMAIN CONSTRAINT** : Each table has certain set of columns and each column allows a same type of data, based on its data type. 
                        The column does not accept values of any other data type.
