A transaction can be defined as a group of tasks. A single task is the minimum processing unit which cannot be divided further.

 A transaction in a database system must maintain Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and Durability in order to ensure accuracy, completeness, and data integrity.
 
 ***Atomicity*** − This property states that a transaction must be treated as an atomic unit, that is, either all of its operations are executed or none

***Consistency*** − The database must remain in a consistent state after any transaction. No transaction should have any adverse effect on the 
                    data residing in the database.

***Durability*** − The database should be durable enough to hold all its latest updates even if the system fails or restarts.

***Isolation*** − In a database system where more than one transaction are being executed simultaneously and in parallel, the property of isolation states 
            that all the transactions will be carried out and executed as if it is the only transaction in the system
            
***Locking*** - A transaction requests different types of locks on the resources, such as rows, pages, or tables, on
which the transaction is dependent. locks block other transactions from using the resources.

***Row Versioning*** - Database Engine maintains versions of each row that is modified. Applications can specify that a transaction use the row versions to view data as it existed at the start
                       of the transaction or query instead of protecting all reads with locks.
                       
***CONCURRENCY CONTROL*** - Users accessing the same resource at the same time are said to be concurrent users. 
It May have adverse effects when multiple users try to modify the same resources that other users are actively using.
So, Concurrency control needs to be implemented.

***EFFECTS OF CONCURRENCY*** - Phantom Rows - two identical queries executing within a transaction returns different number of records.
                               Lost updates - two or more transactions select the same row and then update the row based on the value originally selected.
                               Dirty Read - One transaction is reading data that has not been committed yet and may be changed by another transaction
updating the row.

***Serializability*** - When multiple transactions are being executed by the operating system in a multiprogramming environment,
there are possibilities that instructions of one transactions are interleaved with some other transaction.

                Schedule − A chronological execution sequence of a transaction is called a schedule
                Serial Schedule − It is a schedule in which transactions are aligned in such a way that one transaction is executed first.
                
 ***Deadlock*** - One process locked a resource and waiting for another resource before committing its transaction
