* Arrival Time (AT): Time at which process enters a ready state.
* Burst Time (BT): Amount of CPU time required by the process to finish its execution.
* Completion Time (CT): Time at which process finishes its execution.
* Turn Around Time (TAT): Completion Time (CT) – Arrival Time (AT), WT + BT
* Waiting Time: Turn Around Time (TAT) – Burst Time (BT)
* Response Time: Is the time it takes to start responding, not the time it takes to output the response

* CPU utilization: Keeping the CPU as busy as possible.
* Throughput: If the CPU is busy executing processes, then work is being done. One measure of work is the number of processes that are completed per time unit, 
  called throughput.
* Turnaround time: The interval from the time of submission of a process to the time of completion is the turnaround time.
* Waiting time: Waiting time is the sum of the periods spent waiting in the ready queue.
* Response Time: Is the time it takes to start responding, not the time it takes to output the response.
* Note: The CPU-scheduling algorithm does not affect the amount of time during which a process executes I/0; it affects only the amount of time that a process spends 
  waiting in the ready queue. It is desirable to maximize CPU utilization and throughput and to minimize turnaround time, waiting time, and response time.
* Non-Pre-emptive: Under Non-Pre-emptive scheduling, once the CPU has been allocated to a process, the process keeps the CPU until it releases the CPU either by 
  terminating or by switching to the waiting state. i.e. A process will leave the CPU willingly it can’t be
