***Many to Many***

Some operating system provide a combined user level thread and Kernel level thread facility. Solaris is a good example of this combined approach. 
In a combined system, multiple threads within the same application can run in parallel on multiple processors and a blocking system call need not 
block the entire process. 

Multithreading models are three types

    Many to many relationship.
    Many to one relationship.
    One to one relationship.

Many to Many Model

The many-to-many model multiplexes any number of user threads onto an equal or smaller number of kernel threads.

Many-to-many threading model is where 6 user level threads are multiplexing with 6 kernel level threads. 
In this model, developers can create as many user threads as necessary and the corresponding Kernel threads can run in parallel on a multiprocessor machine.

***Many to One Model***

Many-to-one model maps many user level threads to one Kernel-level thread. Thread management is done in user space by the thread library. When thread makes a 
blocking system call, the entire process will be blocked. Only one thread can access the Kernel at a time, so multiple threads are unable to run in parallel 
on multiprocessors.

If the user-level thread libraries are implemented in the operating system in such a way that the system does not support them, then the Kernel threads 
use the many-to-one relationship modes.

***One-to-one Model***

There is one-to-one relationship of user-level thread to the kernel-level thread. This model provides more concurrency than the many-to-one model. 
It also allows another thread to run when a thread makes a blocking system call. It supports multiple threads to execute in parallel on microprocessors

