***Synchronisation***

Process Synchronization means sharing system resources by processes in a such a way that, Concurrent access to shared data is handled thereby minimizing 
the chance of inconsistent data. Maintaining data consistency demands mechanisms to ensure synchronized execution of cooperating processes.

***CRITICAL SECTION***

A Critical Section is a code segment that accesses shared variables and has to be executed as an atomic action. It means that in a group of 
cooperating processes, at a given point of time, only one process must be executing its critical section.

***SEMAPHORES***

Semaphore is simply a variable which is non-negative and shared between threads. This variable is used to solve the critical section problem 
and to achieve process synchronization in the multiprocessing environment.

Semaphores are of two types:

    **Binary Semaphore** – This is also known as mutex lock. It can have only two values – 0 and 1. Its value is initialized to 1. 
    It is used to implement the solution of critical section problem with multiple processes.
    
    **Counting Semaphore** – Its value can range over an unrestricted domain. It is used to control access to a resource that has multiple instances

***Mutex Locks***

As the synchronization hardware solution is not easy to implement for everyone, a strict software approach called Mutex Locks was introduced. In this
approach, in the entry section of code, a LOCK is acquired over the critical resources modified and used inside critical section, and in the exit section 
that LOCK is released.

