# BOUNDED BUFFER PROBLEM

**PROBLEM STATEMENT**

*There is a buffer of n slots and each slot is capable of storing one unit of data. There are two processes running, namely, producer and consumer, 
which are operating on the buffer.*

A **producer** tries to insert data into an empty slot of the buffer. A **consumer** tries to remove data from a filled slot in the buffer.

***SOLUTION***

One solution of this problem is to use semaphores. The semaphores which will be used here are:

   * m, a binary semaphore which is used to acquire and release the lock.
   * empty, a counting semaphore whose initial value is the number of slots in the buffer, since, initially all slots are empty.
   * full, a counting semaphore whose initial value is 0.

**The Producer Operation**

* a producer first waits until there is atleast one empty slot
* Then it decrements the empty semaphore because, there will now be one less empty slot, since the producer is going to insert data in one of those slots. 
* Then, it acquires lock on the buffer, so that the consumer cannot access the buffer until producer completes its operation.
  After performing the insert operation, the lock is released and the value of full is incremented because the producer has just filled a slot in the buffer.

**The consumer operation**

   * The consumer waits until there is atleast one full slot in the buffer.
   * Then it decrements the full semaphore because the number of occupied slots will be decreased by one, after the consumer completes its operation.
   * After that, the consumer acquires lock on the buffer.
   * Following that, the consumer completes the removal operation so that the data from one of the full slots is removed.
   * Then, the consumer releases the lock.
   * Finally, the empty semaphore is incremented by 1, because the consumer has just removed data from an occupied slot, thus making it empty.

# DINING PHILOSOPHER PROBLEM

**PROBLEM STATEMENT**
 
 *There are five philosophers sitting around a circular dining table. The dining table has five chopsticks and a bowl of rice in the middle.At any instant, a philosopher is either eating or thinking. When a philosopher wants to eat, he uses two chopsticks - one from their left and one from their right. When a philosopher wants to think, he keeps down both chopsticks at their original place.*
 
 ***SOLUTION***
 
 There will be An array of five semaphores, stick[5], for each of the five chopsticks.
 
 
   * A philosopher must be allowed to pick up the chopsticks only if both the left and right chopsticks are available.
   * Allow only four philosophers to sit at the table. That way, if all the four philosophers pick up four chopsticks, there will be one chopstick left on the table.
     So, one philosopher can start eating and eventually, two chopsticks will be available. In this way, deadlocks can be avoided.

# Reader-Writer Problem

**PROBLEM STATEMENT**

*There is a shared resource which should be accessed by multiple processes. There are two types of processes in this context. They are reader and writer. Any number of readers can read from the shared resource simultaneously, but only one writer can write to the shared resource. When a writer is writing data to the resource, no other process can access the resource. A writer cannot write to the resource if there are non zero number of readers accessing the resource at that time*

***SOLUTION***

Here, we use one mutex m and a semaphore w. An integer variable read_count is used to maintain the number of readers currently accessing the resource. The variable read_count is initialized to 0. A value of 1 is given initially to m and w.

Instead of having the process to acquire lock on the shared resource, we use the mutex m to make the process to acquire and release lock whenever it is updating the read_count variable. 

* The writer just waits on the w semaphore until it gets a chance to write to the resource.
* After performing the write operation, it increments w so that the next writer can access the resource.
* On the other hand, in the code for the reader, the lock is acquired whenever the read_count is updated by a process.
* When a reader wants to access the resource, first it increments the read_count value, then accesses the resource and then decrements the read_count value.
* The semaphore w is used by the first reader which enters the critical section and the last reader which exits the critical section.
* The reason for this is, when the first readers enters the critical section, the writer is blocked from the resource. Only new readers can access the resource now.
* Similarly, when the last reader exits the critical section, it signals the writer using the w semaphore because there are zero readers now and a writer can have the       
  chance to access the resource.
 
