***Basics of Dead-Lock***
•	In a multiprogramming environment, several processes may compete for a finite number of resources. A process requests resources; if the resources are not available at that time, the process enters a waiting state. Sometimes, a waiting process is never again able to change state, because the resources it has requested are held by other waiting processes. This situation is called adeadlock.
A set of processes is in a deadlocked state when every process in the set is waiting for an event that can be caused only by another process in the set
•	Starvation is long waiting but deadlock is infinitewaiting


***System model***
Under the normal mode of operation, a process may utilize a resource in only the following sequence:
•	Request. The process requests the resource. If the request cannot be granted immediately (for example, if the resource is being used by another process), then the requesting process must wait until it can acquire theresource.
•	Use. The process can operate on the resource (for example, if the resource is aprinter, the process can print on theprinter).
Release. The process releases theresource.

***Necessary conditions for deadlock***
A deadlock can occur if all these 4 conditions occur in the system simultaneously.
•	Mutual exclusion: - At least one resource must be held in a non-sharable mode; that is, only one process at a time can use the resource. If another process requests that resource, the requesting process must be delayed until the resource has been released. And the resource Must be desired by more than one process. i.e. one by one e.g.Printer.
E.g. sects and money, board
•	Hold and wait: - A process must be holding at least one resource and waiting to acquire additional resources that are currently being held by other processes. E.g. Plate and spoon
•	No pre-emption: - Resources cannot be pre-empted; that is, a resource can be released only voluntarily by the process holding it, after that process has completed itstask.
•	Circular wait: - A set P0, P1, ..., Pn of waiting processes must exist such that P0 is waiting for a resource held by P1, P1 is waiting for a resource held by P2, ..., Pn−1 is waiting for a resource held by Pn, and Pn is waiting for a resource held byP0.


We emphasize that all four conditions must hold for a deadlock to occur.


***Deadlock Handling methods***
•	Prevention: - Design such protocols that there is no possibility ofdeadlock.
•	Avoidance: - Try to avoid deadlock in run time so ensuring that the system will never enter a deadlockedstate.
•	Detection: - We can allow the system to enter a deadlocked state, then detect it, and recover.
•	Ignorance: - We can ignore the problem altogether and pretend that deadlocks never occur in thesystem.


***Prevention***
It means designing such systems where there is no possibility of existence of deadlock. For that we have to remove one of the four necessary condition of deadlock.
Mutual exclusion: -In prevention approach, there is no solution for mutual exclusion as resource can’t be made sharable as it is a hardware property and process also can’t be convinced to do some other task. In general, however, we cannot prevent deadlocks by denying the mutual-exclusion condition, because some resources are intrinsically non- sharable.


***Hold & wait: -***
•	In conservative approach, process is allowed to run if & only if it has acquired all the resources.
•	An alternative protocol allows a process to request resources only when it has none. A process may request some resources and use them. Before it can request any additional resources, it must release all the resources that it is currentlyallocated.
•	Wait time outs we place a max time outs up to which a process can wait. After which process must release all the holding resources &exit.
No pre-emption: -
•	If a process is holding some resources and requests another resource that cannot be immediately allocated to it (that is, the process must wait), then all resources the process is currently holding are pre-empted. The process will be restarted only when it can regain its old resources, as well as the new ones that it isrequesting.
•	Alternatively, if a process requests some resources, we first check whether they are available. If they are, we allocate them. If they are not, we check whether they are allocated to some other process that is waiting for additional resources. If so, we pre- empt the desired resources from the waiting process and allocate them to 
  the requesting process. If the resources are neither available nor held by a waiting process, the requesting process must wait. While it is waiting, some of its resources may be pre- empted, but only if another process requests them. A process can be restarted only when it is allocated the new resources it is requesting and recovers any resources that were pre-empted while it waswaiting.

***Circular wait: -***
•	We can eliminate circular wait problem by giving a natural number mapping to every resource and then any process can request only in the increasing order and if a process wants a lower number, then process must first release all the resource larger than that number and then give a freshrequest.


***Avoidance***
•	Problem with Prevention: - Different deadlock Prevention approach put different type of restrictions or conditions on the processes and resources Because of which system becomes slow and resource utilization and reduced systemthroughput.
•	An alternative method for avoiding deadlocks is to require additional information about how resources are to be requested. which resources a process will request and use during its lifetime i.e. maximum number of resources of each type that it mayneed

***Banker’s Algorithm***
We need the following data structures, where n is the number of processes in the system and m is the number of resource types:
•	Available: A vector of length m indicates the number of available resources of each type. If Available[j] equals k, then k instances of resource type Rj areavailable.
•	Max: An n*m matrix defines the maximum demand of each process. If Max[i][j] equals k, then process Pi may request at most k instances of resource typeRj.
•	Allocation: An n*m matrix defines the number of resources of each type currently allocated to each process. If Allocation[i][j] equals k, then process Pi is currently allocated k instances of resource typeRj.
* Need/Demand/Requirement: An n*m matrix indicates the remaining resource need of each process. If Need[i][j] equals k, then process Pi may need k more instances of resource type Rj to complete its task. Note that Need[i][j] = Max[i][j] −Allocation[i][j].
Resource Allocation Graph
•	Deadlock can be described more precisely in terms of a directed graph called a system resource-allocation graph. This graph consists of a set of vertices V and aset
of edges E.
•	The set of vertices V is partitioned into two different types of nodes: P = {P1, P2, ..., Pn}, the set consisting of all the active processes in the system, and R = {R1, R2, ..., Rm}, the set consisting of all resource types in thesystem
